I will not go into my own preferences for political candidates. I merely urge U.S. citizens to read this book before making their own decisions.

Its definition: “Totalitarian politics...use and abuse their own ideological and political elements until the basis of factual reality, from which the ideologies originally derived their strength and their propaganda value...have all but disappeared.” How the presentations of the political campaign are done is important. Any connection with facts, as we best know them, are irrelevant.

From its description in this book, totalitarianism seems like a religion to me. Followers of this religion are not interested in facts, and not even invented facts (lies). Totalitarian leaders often lie, but then claim their lies were the result of tactical cleverness. There followers admire this because it shows their leader is “so smart”.

Totalitarianism is often supported by “conspiracy theories” where random occurrences are claimed too unlikely to be random, and must the result of a conspiracy. It is not comforting to know some things happen just by chance. “Totalitarian propaganda thrives on this escape from reality into fiction, from coincidence into consistency.”

I have always been agains “-isms”, Capitalism, communism, liberalism, conservatism, libertarianism, or objectivism. I agree with this book about the curious logicality of all -isms, their simple-minded trust in the salvation value of stubborn devotion without regard for specific, varying factors, already harbors the first germs of totalitarian contempt for reality and factuality. It is much easier to follow the predefined opinions of some “-ism” that to perform the difficult work of thinking.

There are many other points where I could have paraphrased or quoted from this book. I leave with one more quote, “The only man for whom Hitler had ‘unqualified respect’ was ‘Stalin the genius’” This was from the book “Hitler's Table Talk”, compiled by Martin Bormann, which I have also read and recommend to anyone interested in totalitarian.
